Well, good afternoon, everyone.
I'm Joseph Rickert from RStudio.
And I am a director of the R Consortium.
And I'm here with David Smith, my fellow director
from Microsoft, who's also a director of the R Consortium.
And what we'd like to do is give you
some idea about the R Consortium and why we exist.
So first off, in simplest terms, the R Consortium
is a group of business enterprises
and philanthropic enterprises who
have an interest in ensuring that the R
language and the R community thrive for the long term.
So the consortium is the vehicle for the participation
of businesses in the R community.
The way I think about it is that to have a community
like the R community, there are three necessary conditions.
You have to have people who self-identify
as part of the community, people who interact frequently,
and there has to be a way for people
to contribute to the community.
So the R Consortium is a way for businesses
And right now, what we have here is a list of the members.
And what you see are the founding members, RStudio
and Microsoft.
And then on the end there, you see the addition this year
of the Moore Foundation, the Gordon and Betty Moore
Foundation, which I believe is a significant development
because it shows that a well-established
philanthropic grant-giving organization who's
interested in promoting science and technology in the United
States has recognized that R is a key contributor
and enabler for the scientific community.
And on the bottom here, you see some organizations
that are not directly making their business
around the R language, like Google, for instance.
Or you have here, this little mountain there
is Ketchum Trading, which is a hedge fund in Chicago.
These are smaller organizations who
recognize that they have a significant dependence
on the R language, and they want to become
members of the community.
So here we have a way for businesses
and other organizations to become a member.
And we see ourselves as the link here.
So the possibilities are that we could
be the place that bind the community, which
is at the people level, industry, which
is a category above, collections of people, the R Foundation,
which is, of course, an organization made up
of people who are also individuals.
So this is how we solve the, we see ourselves
as a link.
Now, there are two major ways that we provide energy
and money.
So the energy part is exemplified
by this slide here.
We have the concept of working groups.
And if you've ever worked in a standards organization,
like the IEEE or other trade organizations,
you can see that there's lots of opinions
about how things should be done, right?
And it's very important before you do anything
to try to achieve consensus, perhaps
get some funding to work out initial prototypes.
And that's what the R Consortium Working Group is for.
So you see we have some already underway.
And this graphic on the right here
is, that's the reference architecture
for the Distributed Computing Working Group.
Now, what they're working on is to try to figure out
if there is a single interface layer that, say,
could be built that would be the proper way for people
to write to if they were interested in using
different distributed computing back end.
So it's not an obvious solution.
And they're working at it.
We see ourselves as a catalyst.
We're delightful to see the success
that Our Ladies is having.
We funded Our Ladies during the last round last year,
just a small amount of money.
And we certainly can't take any kind of credit for the success.
But this is a slide that they presented to us
when we went through the exercise of seeing
how our investments were turning out.
And we're just delighted to see how much progress they've
made and continue to make.
And it's an example of sometimes you
have something that's working at one level,
and then maybe a little bit of money or attention.
In this case, I think maybe just attention.
And it works wonders.
A place where people can come together.
So we mostly fund what we call infrastructure projects.
But we have an extended idea of infrastructure.
And getting people, small conferences and ways
for people to meet are also part of our mission.
We're interested really in complicated projects.
So when we go out for a call for papers, what we like to see
are proposals from groups or individuals
or groups of individuals who were
willing to undertake something that
will benefit a large portion of the art community
and something big enough that it needs organizational help.
And then we're the resource for the heavy lifting.
So the R-Hub project, which many of you
have probably seen a tutorial on yesterday,
was some kind of motivating project
for the art consortium.
What happens when you need to begin
to put together the infrastructure for a modern day
build system that will last through the 21st century?
This is what it takes to be on the consortium.
And it shows the commitment that these companies have made.
So to be a platinum member, that's $100,000 dues per year.
A gold member, which is underneath that, is $50,000.
And the silver member is $25,000 for organizations
that are over 100 people.
What I'd like to see is the growth
in the consortium with lots of smaller members contributing.
Because we're all stronger when people become involved.
There's two major committees.
You can see there's the board of directors that we're on.
And that's involved with strategic decisions
and how much money we have to spend.
The infrastructure steering committee
is the group that actually decides
what projects get funded.
And they issue the call for papers and what have you.
And this is a list of the active projects that are going now.
You see, I'm up there on the board
because I run our user group support program.
So if you're organizing a user group,
there is some money to be had depending
on the size of the group.
So please look at our consortium web page and write to us
and tell us about your group.
And you see the grants range from small grants,
you know, in the $5,000 range to the R-Hub
is a significant project.
So we're prepared to undertake real infrastructure.
But our mission is to spread the money around.
This is money that comes to us in dues.
Right now, we're up to getting close to having handed out
half a million dollars.
And we're pretty efficient.
I think the last I looked, our efficiency ratio is about 70%.
And we'd like to even do better than that.
So the money comes in from the companies.
They have an interest in fostering
the community, the foundation, and the language.
And we're trying to hand it back intelligently
to people who have real contributions to make.
So, David.
Thank you, Jerry.
I wanted to jump in at this point.
If I turn it that way, it'll go forwards.
I wanted to jump at this point
and just give a little perspective
from the point of view of Microsoft.
And why did Microsoft become a member of the R Consortium?
And it has to do with what I said
if you saw my talk this morning,
is that the value of software, including R,
lies not just in its technical capability,
but also in the ecosystem that forms around it.
And Microsoft has a lot of interest
in R having a thriving ecosystem around it.
You know, Microsoft is a fine and noble company,
but it doesn't do things out of the goodness of its heart,
should it have one.
Microsoft is very selfishly investing in the R Consortium
to foster the growth and success of the R community.
In its technical capabilities,
to give you one very specific example,
Microsoft has a very vested interest
in R being able to access databases very well.
And there is a DBI project
that was funded by the R Consortium
in order to unify the way that R connects with databases,
which is very much in Microsoft's interests.
It's also important from a talent perspective.
Both we at Microsoft and our customers and partners
that are working with R need to be able to hire people.
And by investing in the R Consortium
and being public about that,
that helps us with our recruitment goals.
Also around the vendor network,
you know, being able to work
with the other vendors in the space,
you know, like RStudio, like TIBCO, like everybody else,
and have just unified discussions
about how R is working in the commercial environment
is very, very important to us at Microsoft.
So from our perspective,
we get very good value out of that $100,000 a year
that we invest in the R Consortium,
which in turn gets invested into the broader ecosystem
as Joe just described.
Just to give some summaries about the R Consortium
since it's been running for a couple of years now,
we currently do have 13 members,
four of which are that top level platinum member,
actually, rather than gold as listed there.
We would love to have more.
So if you are working at an organization
which is doing a lot with R,
please do talk to your leadership
about potentially becoming a member of the R Consortium,
and in turn, contributing to the ecosystem
in the ways that I just described.
But the thing that I think I'm most personally proud of
as a founding member,
and I'm sure the other members are as well,
is the projects that the members of the community
have been able to undertake
through the R Consortium sponsorship,
and not just the projects, but also the working groups
and the social organizations that Joe mentioned as well.
Another thing that I think is really, really important
that the R Consortium has achieved
is to open up a conduit between the vendor community
that is working with Microsoft
and directly with the leadership of the R Foundation.
One of the ways the governance structure
of the R Consortium is designed
is that the R Foundation
automatically has a seat on the board,
participates in the board meetings,
participates in the discussions,
and that has really improved the communication
back and forth between the vendor community
and the R core group.
Right now, Robert Gentleman is representing the R Foundation
on the board of the R Consortium.
And in general, it's just providing a secure,
long-term foundation for R as a whole,
R as an ecosystem from these vested interests
of the vendors that are working around R.
So what's coming up?
One of the projects that the R Consortium
is investing in right now and undertaking
is a general survey of the R community.
This is essentially an academic survey.
It's been designed.
We spent a working group,
spent about three months designing this survey.
It's only recently been launched,
but we would love to hear from you
and any member of the R community broadly
that might be watching online or anybody who is using R
to provide information about what you think
about the past, present, and future of the R project.
There'll be a link at the end of the presentation,
but please do visit the R Consortium blog
or the R Consortium Twitter handle
to see a link to that survey.
There are also a number of new projects
that have already been funded and are kicking off soon.
If you'd like to read about those new projects,
that's on the R Consortium blog at the link there.
And if you have been inspired by projects
that you and some colleagues might wish to undertake,
there will be a new round of proposals
being announced later on this year
where you can make an application
and apply for funding in the same way we saw.
So just in general, to wrap up,
the R Consortium is there to promote the growth
and development of R as a leading platform for data science,
to provide support directly to the R Foundation
through that connection I mentioned a moment ago,
to fund projects that are supporting the R project
and the R community,
and foster the growth of that R community.
And then from the point of view of the vendors,
to help enable the use of R in commercial environments
and foster collaboration between those companies
that are using R in that commercial sector.
So, as I mentioned earlier on,
help us to help you be part of that community.
Please talk to your company
about potentially becoming a member.
Think about projects and submit them to the R Consortium
when the new round comes out shortly.
Have a look at the existing projects
that are currently underway,
and if you'd like to chip in and help with those, please do.
And follow us and spread the word on Twitter and at the blog.
Thank you very much.
APPLAUSE